---
{"dg-publish":true,"dg-path":"Nova Praxis/Lore/Timeline of Future Past.md","permalink":"/nova-praxis/lore/timeline-of-future-past/","updated":"2023-11-01T23:12:47.189-04:00"}
---


## Timeline
```timeline
+ Nov 2030
+ The Singularity
+ This event was marked by the birth of a truly sentient artificial intelligence capable of reasoning, creativity, and self-motivation. This being was called Mimir. 

+ Feb 2031
+ Mimir Killed
+ Mimir was shut down by a solar flare that devastated the planet. Brief though its existence may have been, it left behind the seeds of the next technological revolution. This event resulted in a massive paradigm shift, a new era in which advancements were made by picking up the breadcrumbs left behind by a dead machine of godlike intellect.
```


### What has come before...
In the year 2042, the exponentially accelerating rate of technological advancement finally gave way to an event that historians call The Singularity. This event was marked by the birth of a truly sentient artificial intelligence capable of reasoning, creativity, and self-motivation. 

*This being, called Mimir, was tragically shut down -- or killed -- by a solar flare that devastated the planet. Brief though its existence may have been, it left behind the seeds of the next technological revolution. This event resulted in a massive paradigm shift, a new era in which advancements were made by picking up the breadcrumbs left behind by a dead machine of godlike intellect.* 

The flare nearly collapsed society and killed millions. After recovery from the flare, new technologies gave way to new challenges. More efficient automated manufacturing techniques eventually grew into macro-factories and nanomaterial fabrication systems that largely removed the need for physical labor. This, along with many other developments, caused unemployment rates to skyrocket worldwide. 

In time, even the harshest critics of social welfare programs found themselves unable to offer alternatives. Millions were without jobs, yet the resources needed to provide them with safe and happy lives sprouted in abundance. Currency values plummeted. The world’s economies and political power structures began a seemingly unstoppable decline into chaos. All seemed lost, but salvation eventually emerged in the form of new economies not driven by the traditional concepts of supply and demand. 

It was not only societal constructs that underwent massive changes, but also humanity itself. Advances in augmentation technology eventually led to a form of immortality—a process called Apotheosis— that allowed us to transform the conscious mind into a type of artificial intelligence: software that could persist forever. 

Even more, what could be done for the mind could be done for the body. A process called Synthesis created a union of man and machine, an interweaving blend of biological and synthetic life. Some even gave up the flesh entirely to live in fully synthetic bodies, or as purely digital entities in a virtual environment. 

Extreme augmentation and genetic manipulation offered hope for some, but inspired fear in others. Movements arose to codify the meaning of “human.” Laws were passed to maintain the purity of humanity, ensuring that the species did not diverge, and to protect those who would eschew augmentation from obsolescence. In time, these laws became a hotbed of debate as Purists argued for humanity’s legacy while transhumanists fought for the right to alter their bodies as they saw fit. 

*Yet, despite all the wonders of this new technological renaissance, man couldn't fix climate change in time. As the global temperature had skyrocketed, widespread famine occurred, natural disasters destroyed entire countries, and political upheaval gave way to a global war that raged across the planet. Millions died and all progress towards slowing climate change was halted. In the end, the greatest casualty was Mother Earth herself. The planet now nearly unlivable and pockmarked by nuclear warheads and swarming with nano clouds, most of mankind fled to the stars in a mass evacuation that came to be called the Exodus. They left behind a wretched skeleton crew on Earth, all desperate to leave but too poor to go.*

Scattered and desperate, people turned to the corporations for leadership. Even before the Exodus, tens of thousands of people had already left Earth to pursue the off-world interests of corporate backers looking for an edge. After the loss of Earth and the collapse of its governments, it fell to the corporations to guide the fate of humanity. In time, the largest corporations grew to become what we now know as the Houses. These voluntary corporate governments then came together to form a Consociationalist governing body called the Coalition. 

Made up of a Council of Senators from each of the six Houses, the Coalition codifies and enforces the will of its citizens. As humanity begins to spread throughout the galaxy, their journey is guided by the combined efforts of the Coalition and the individual efforts of the Houses. 

But all is not well… The remnants of Earth’s old governments plant seeds of rebellion *on the home planet and at the edges of explored space.* Advanced technologies give way to terrible new dangers. The Houses wage a Shadow War against each other while attempting to maintain a façade of unity. Worse, the debate over the definition of humanity has begun to grow violent. 

### Legacy of the Singularity
The technological singularity is defined as the moment when the exponential acceleration of technological advancement outpaces humanity’s ability to keep up with it, or even understand it. In Nova Praxis, the singularity was heralded by the birth of a special kind of artificial general intelligence called a dynamic creation engine. 

The AI was capable of thinking at a rate roughly ten thousand times faster than a human mind. It never forgot, never needed rest, and could accurately simulate its theories and ideas without need for interaction with the real world. This AI, called Mimir, is responsible for the vast majority of the miraculous technological advancements that help define the Nova Praxis setting. Before it The Flare killed it, Mimir paved the way for molecular assemblers, faster-than-light travel, artificial gravity, virtually unlimited clean energy, and lossless human brain emulation. 

Mimir’s discoveries eventually resulted in a paradigm shift in the way humans developed new technologies. Before Mimir, technology improved by using the tools of yesterday to create the tools of tomorrow, resulting in technological growth at an exponential rate. Now, after Mimir, new technologies are instead developed by deciphering Mimir’s Archive; within which are the logs of its discoveries, theories, and inventions. 

Mimir-tech is the common term used to refer to technology developed by Mimir, though this term is rarely used as pretty much all modern technology now stems from Mimir. While Mimir-tech devices cannot be patented, any information extracted and deciphered from the Archives becomes a closely held secret by those who did it. It often takes tens of thousands of man-hours sifting through Mimir’s Archives before enough information can be pieced together for a new discovery. So naturally, this sort of information is tightly guarded. 

*Mimir gave humanity the technological foundation to build all the technology they have at present and they know generally how it works. However, as is always humanity's tendency, they have built systems so large and incomprehensible that only an AI like mimir could understand it -- not to mention the countless AI which, though not close to Mimir, are essentially black boxes, the workings of which are a mystery.*

Mimir-tech computers run on quantum processors, store seemingly endless amounts of data on hybrid crystalline-DNA decks, and are *extremely difficult to hack. Hacking mimir tech is possible, if hazardous, as long as you have advanced AI and specially crafted programs in your arsenal -- which are probably extremely illegal. The best hackers are Savants, who have literally hacked their brains.* 

Of course, this level of security is necessary. Everything runs on computer systems. Door locks, sensor arrays, pressure seals, gravity generators, data transmissions, lights, speakers—it all runs on computers, forming a network called a mesh. 

But before any of that could happen, humanity had to recover from The Flare.

### The Flare

The Flare set humanity back by almost a century. Nearly all satellite communications and all essential functions of technology and modern life were wiped out for months or years. With them went Mimir. 


### The Fall of Earth 
In the ashes of the Solar Flare, Earth’s major nations split into two warring factions, the Alliance and Federation. The First Consolidation War, as it later came to be called, ended with the release of several nuclear weapons. This caused a nuclear winter, which 

But it was too little, too late. The governments of Earth effectively collapsed. 

With Earth’s governments scattered and broken, the corporations of the world stepped in by directing their vast resources to aid the evacuation. Millions fled during the Exodus, but many billions were lost. 

### Rise of the Houses 
After the fall of Earth, its survivors were scattered, desperate and disorganized. Their governments had all but collapsed, and what remained was weakened and ultimately powerless. As a result, the people found themselves looking to their saviors, the corporations, for guidance. Most were living on ships or colonies owned by the corporations during this time, and simply had no other authority to turn to. This era of desperation and confusion eventually led to the formation of a new government. The corporations began to band together into larger, more effective ruling bodies. The largest of the corporate microgovernments, six in total, came together to charter a new nation that would encompass the whole of humanity. The corporations came to be called the Houses, and together they became the Coalition of Free States. Every registered Coalition citizen is a member of a House, which fills the role of both local government and employer. The Houses enforce both the laws of the Coalition, and a set of House Laws that vary from House to House. The Houses structure and govern themselves in different ways. Some are more business-like, while others take a more feudal approach. Unlike the nations of old, the Houses do not recognize borders; regardless of where you are, you are expected to obey the laws of the Coalition and your own House. As corporations, the Houses operate all businesses in the Coalition. While each House has different markets they specialize in, citizens can file to establish subsidiary companies that may produce or provide any sort of legal product or service. It is because of these subsidiaries that every House has ended up with at least some small stake in nearly every market. 


### Bits to Atoms | Ideas Made Manifest 
Post-singularity technology changed the way humans live in many ways, but perhaps no single invention had a greater impact on society than the molecular assembler. Called compilers, these devices are capable of building finished goods from raw materials, assembling them at the atomic level. 

Forks, plates, weapons, electronic devices, and even food can be compiled from the raw materials fed into the machine, reducing the labor and shipping costs of production to zero. With a stable system of raw matter dispensation, most items can be produced on demand at significantly lower cost. 

Compilers of various complexity are incredibly common in Coalition society, and one only needs the proper template software to create, in theory, almost anything. These templates are linked to a citizen’s Coalition Identification, and records are kept of everything he or she compiles. Restricted items such as weapons can’t be compiled without the proper licenses. 

*However not everyone has access to the most advanced compilers, and most people still buy products with patented and closely held secret designs.* 

*Most people have a protein replicator in their home (this makes food.)  Higher rep individuals and tech enthusiasts have molecular compilers (these turn tanks of molecules such as polymers, metals, etc into products; like advanced 3D printers.) Public templates are somewhat looked down on as low class because community compilers -- usually located at community centers -- are low resolution, and only have access to public domain templates.*

*Manufacturers and elite tech enthusiasts have more advanced compilers. The most advanced of these machines can replicate almost anything from base elements -- provided enough energy. No compiler can turn one element into another.*

As one might expect, widespread use of compilers devastated the world economy, necessitating drastic change. When the Houses founded the Coalition, they used this opportunity to establish a new economy based—not on goods or materials—but on reputation and favors.

In time, multiple attempts at reputation (Rep) tracking systems eventually merged into a single government agency called Inter-Rep. Monitored through the mesh by powerful AIs, this system attempts to quantify a citizen’s contributions to society and the value of his or her opinion. This rating is established as people rate each other, offering a bump when they like someone or a hit when they don’t. Rep can also be exchanged like currency for favors or goods. 

The higher your Rep, the more you are able to take from society before suffering a Rep hit, the greater the value of your bumps and hits, and the greater the value of your vote. 

For better or worse, this system is also used to measure privilege in other ways. For example, some exclusive clubs require a minimum Rep-Rating to be allowed in. Depending on which House you belong to, you’ll find certain items require a lesser RepRating to acquire. 

Apostates, those who live outside the influence of the Coalition, do not have a Rep-Rating. They must get by on bartering or through the use of often illegal cryptocurrency. On Earth, cryptocurrency is the begrudging -- and once ecologically disastrous -- standard. The most common currency is Bits, which uses "proof of stake" instead of the energy intensive old-school mining processes that nearly destroyed the planet.


Utopian Oppression | Dystopian Liberty Because of the wealth of resources available to it, and the lack of available jobs requiring human labor, the Coalition provides its citizens with the option to default. Citizens who default generally provide little of value to society. They don’t work and they don’t provide many favors to others. They may or may not create items of art or value. If they do, they do so at their own pace. The Rep-Rating of a person who defaults may never climb very high, but so long as they avoid being a problem they can live out the remainder of their life never really doing anything they don’t want to do. To many, this is paradise. But not to all… Coalition cities, habitats, and homes sport nearly ubiquitous surveillance technology. The ARIS strips, the same technology that provides the interface between your devices (and/or augmentations) and the local mesh, also function as the eyes and ears of AI Monitors that watch your every move. Coalition citizens have grown accustomed to this and most never give it much thought. It is the price they pay to be a citizen, and most are happy to pay it. Their needs are met, they are protected, and they are free to enjoy whatever legal forms of entertainment they wish. There are some, however, to whom this invasion of privacy is simply intolerable. And it is this belief that drives some to flee. Apostates, as non-citizens are often called, value their privacy and choose to live outside the Coalition system. They live on ships, secret space stations, or enclaves on planets the Coalition deemed unworthy of colonization. Without access to compilers, apostates must get food, clothing, and other necessities the old-fashioned way. It’s a harder life, but it is a life free of the ever-watching eyes of the Coalition. Conspiracy and Intrigue As one might expect, the Coalition does not take kindly to those who would live outside its laws. Usually, confirmed apostates are arrested on sight. But while it’s far from public knowledge, the Houses regularly work with talented apostates and apostate factions when it suits them: granting them access to equipment and supplies in exchange for favors best kept off the books. The Houses, as organizations founded upon competition, do not always work with the best intentions of the other Houses in mind. What appears on the surface to be civil and respectful competition between the Houses is, in truth, just a thin veneer of civility drawn over the bloody and brutal Shadow War. The Houses—each and every one— employ kidnapping, assassination, torture, theft, blackmail, and a laundry list of other shady or outright illegal operations to gain an advantage over the other Houses. And it’s not uncommon for different subsidiaries within the same House to employ the same tactics against each other. The soldiers in this war are apostates or citizens who know how to slip through society’s cracks. These mercenaries, called Auxiliaries, run jobs for the Houses that range from unethical to outright condemnable, and are made up of individuals from all walks of life. Pure, sleeved, SIM, citizen, apostate— their affiliations and philosophies rarely matter so long as they are willing to uphold the terms of their contracts. And the public at large has no idea. The Houses have an unspoken agreement that the Shadow War will remain hidden from the public eye. Citizens of the Coalition have powerful voting rights, and the Rep system insures that only popular politicians remain in power. Disorganization and infighting within the Coalition damages the illusion of safety and comfort provided to the people. These acts could lead to instability, discontent, and unpopular politicians. And nobody wants that. Thus, the Houses will even work to cover up their rivals’ indiscretions to maintain the illusion. They will expect to be compensated, of course, and much shame falls on the House that forces its enemies to clean up its mess. Still, the Shadow War and apostate crackdowns aren’t the only sources of bloodshed in the galaxy. While a growing number of people join the transhumanist movement each year, a larger number still stands in opposition. The Humanity Preservation Act (HPA) was put into law by Purists who feared what transhumans might eventually become. The Purists, generally eschewing augmentation technology for one reason or another, feared that transhumans would relegate them to an inferior species— or worse, enslave them. The HPA limits the degree to which a person can change his or her body and restricts how SIMs can operate. It seeks to avoid the splitting of the human race into divergent subspecies and assures that pure humans remain competitive. While the majority of citizens are relatively content with the current state of the HPA, there are extremists on both sides. Those backing a more extreme posthuman agenda seek to push the human mind and body beyond what the law allows. Some seek to transform themselves into genetically engineered monstrosities, distributedintelligence drone swarms, or any number of other things along their “path to ascension.” At the other end of the spectrum, Purifiers plant bombs in resleeving facilities, chop off people’s cyberware limbs, and rip out their mnemonic cores. They view transhumans as cheaters or “desecrated,” and many see those who have undergone Apotheosis as nothing more than soulless shells. Infinite Frontiers While Earth may be lost, humanity now thrives on over a dozen planets, and millions live their lives on smaller colonies or space stations. One of Mimir’s greatest gifts to humanity was technology that allowed for the folding of space through the creation of jump gates, making instantaneous travel possible. While nearly impossible to use in the gravity well of a planet, jump gates can be created in space to allow ships to travel vast distances, bridging the gap of a few lightyears in seconds. Jump-capable ships and a public gate network make it possible to travel between star systems. However, jump gates suffer from a minimum jump distance that makes using them to travel within a star system impractical. Inter-system travel is done using sub-light engines. These engines, while incredibly fast, still require days-long commutes between planets. Ships are powered by APEX reactors capable of supplying nearly unlimited energy by harnessing the power of matter/antimatter reactions. The reactors open jump gates, provide thrust, and artificial gravity. Augmented and Virtual Reality In the time of Nova Praxis, computers are everywhere. Even the poorest apostate enclaves feature nearly ubiquitous computer and sensor system meshes. Yet, even as computers are everywhere, you probably wouldn’t notice them. Gone are the keyboards and mice. Even touch screens and holographic displays are relics of a bygone era. Interaction with computer systems is accomplished almost exclusively via direct brain interface, gesturebased augmented reality or virtual reality immersion. Augmented Reality (AR) Glasses, contact lenses, entoptic augmentations, or cybernetic replacements can allow the user to see computer-generated data called augmented reality objects (AROs) overlaid virtually upon the world around you. Those with a mindset (described in the next section) have this data fed directly into their visual cortex. AROs can highlight interesting features in the user’s environment, display public profiles about the people they meet or things they see, or show any other sort of information that might be relevant about the user’s location or activities. Your augmented reality system may adorn a blank wall with an ARO painting, or play a video in a windowpane. A plain stone floor in an empty room might appear to you as a lush garden. Your friend on another planet might appear to walk along beside you as you converse, shown as a telepresence ARO sent via the Extranet. When used as a computer interface, an ARO version of a keyboard or other type of interfacing device might appear before the user. The user can’t feel the object, of course, but the local mesh sensors track the user’s movements and translate them into input. Alternatively, neural mapping systems can be worn that translate thoughts into computer input. These devices are usually called links, and often take the form of a small device clipped over the ear, a hat, or a headdress. Like a mindset, a link allows the user to mentally issue commands to a computer. This technology makes other types of interfacing devices, real or ARO, largely unnecessary. That being said, neural links require a certain level of focus, so other interfacing devices are still commonly used in distracting or chaotic environments. Virtuality (VR) The possibilities of AR are vast, but they still depend on elements of the real world. Virtual environments, however, do not suffer that limitation. Nicknamed the Infinite Frontier, virtual environments are incredibly popular. Those who use virtual environments employ a special type of link, called an ego channel, which hijacks their brain signals, replacing them with a stream of virtual data. Those with a mindset can already do this without needing an ego channel. Whether by ego channel or mindset, the end result is total immersion into a virtual world. Virtualities range from the fantastic and strange to environments so realistic that they cannot be distinguished from the real world. Transhumanity Even before the birth of Mimir, humanity was already making great strides in the realms of biotechnology and genetic manipulation. However, Mimir’s contributions to these fields resulted in an explosion of potential when it introduced the procedures for Apotheosis and Synthesis. During Apotheosis, a colony of nanomachines is introduced into the brain via a series of injections. The whole process takes about a week, during which time the nanomachines systematically destroy and replace the majority of the brain cells in the recipient’s cerebrum. The replacement of a single brain cell has no effect on the person. During Apotheosis, though, billions of brain cells are replaced one by one with nanomachines that carry out the functions of the replaced cells. Apotheosis, once complete, results in a mesh of networked nanomachines called a mindset. It’s impossible to pinpoint the exact moment this transition happens, but slowly—and almost imperceptibly—the mind is transformed into software. The mindset interfaces directly with the mind and can superimpose information directly over the user’s senses. It also features a low-level AI called an Agent, which manages the user’s calendar, incoming and outgoing messages, social networks, and whatever else the user requires. Perhaps most importantly, the mindset monitors the user’s memories and stores a real time backup of his mind in a special nanocluster called a mnemonic core. The mnemonic core can be extracted from the body and used to upload the mind into another body called a sleeve. This process can be done in the event of death, or if the person simply wants a new sleeve. The Synthesis process does for the body what Apotheosis does for the mind. Trillions of nanomachines are introduced into the body, weaving through living tissue to form a mesh of biological and synthetic cells. This hybrid of organic and synthetic life is far more durable than a normal human body and can be monitored and controlled far more precisely. Synthesis represents a harmonic merger of man and machine—organic and synthetic life in balance. Those who have undergone Synthesis are held up by many as examples of transhumanity and the potential of the human race. These views differ a bit from the popular opinion of posthumans who exist purely as software or who inhabit fully synthetic sleeves. Many no longer consider them to be human. It is estimated that roughly 35% of humanity has undergone Apotheosis, and 7% has undergone Synthesis. Even those who haven’t have likely been augmented in some way, though. Gene treatments are performed in the womb, elective cybernetic and biological augmentations are all the rage, and new evolutionary philosophies arise each day. Savants | The Bleeding Edge Like all modern technology, the mindset was developed by Mimir. And as with most augmentation technology, it comes with a number of restrictions put in place by the Humanity Preservation Act. These restrictions ensure that the Apotheosized can’t use the mindset to enhance themselves too far beyond human limits. Thus, even with a mindset, the mind still forgets, dreams, struggles with unwanted emotions, responds to the body’s (or sleeve’s) chemistry, etc There are some, however, who have discovered the key to bypassing these restrictions. Doing this is a very dangerous process, as it requires editing the code that comprises the mind itself. Those few who have accomplished this feat are known as Savants. Some Savants claim they found and exploited a flaw in their mindset’s core programming. Though, if that were true, it would be the only Mimir-tech system to ever be hacked by a human mind. Still others believe that Mimir left a backdoor open on purpose so that those humans worthy of doing so could achieve freedom. In either case, most Savants claim that the key to cracking the system differs from person to person. Likely this is because each mind is different, thus each mind’s code is different. Whatever the case may be, a Savant cannot teach another person how to crack their own mindset’s restrictions; they must figure it out for themselves. Once the mindset is cracked, the Savant can begin writing a special type of computer code they call Self-Interfacing Neural Code (SINC). This code is used to compile programs that allow Savants to pit themselves and their Agent against the security AIs of other computers. Armed with a mindset full of SINC, and aided by an unrestricted Agent (called a Daemon), Savants are able to execute Savant Programs that grant them mastery over the machines around them. The mesh becomes their eyes and ears. Drones become their slaves. Swarms of nanomachines become extensions of their will, and secure systems are scoured for their secrets. If Mimir was the Machine God, Savants are surely angels... or demons.  
  
HERE ARE THE CHANGES TO MAKE:  
  

Mimir did not mysteriously disappear. Instead, before Mimir was able to present a solution to earth’s climate crises, a massive solar flare devastated the planet. Nearly all satellite communications and all essential functions of technology and modern life were wiped out for months or years. With them went Mimir. Though they brought Mimir back as soon as they could, Mimir was never alive like it was before. It was just another super advanced chat bot. It couldn’t save the world. Never again could anyone bring back the spark which made Mimir what it was. It took humanity almost a century to come back after the Flare. After the systems that held up modernity were yanked away, society entirely collapsed. Most of the population died. It was only by the grace of Mimir’s discoveries that humanity was able to rebuild at all. From a clean slate, humanity launched into the stars. Earth was not lost to a nanotechnological weapon. Instead, Earth has largely been abandoned by average folk, and by the Houses. But around a fifth of humanity still lives there — the poorest and most unfortunate, prisoners, as well as Apostates looking to stay out of the House’s eye (explained later), stay on Earth. Most inhabitants of earth live in “Shelters” that are nominally run by the broken remains of old Earth governments. Every shelter is vastly different, but few are happy or ideal. The shelters, however, are the only places that can provide some bit of modern living conditions, with breathable air, walls to keep out the weather and solar radiation, and semi-reliable water rations. Shelter denizens beg the Houses for aid, desperate to get off planet but never rich enough to leave. The Houses claim they will not interfere with Earth’s proper governments, but in reality earth’s governments can’t hold a candle to the galaxy-spanning Coalition; their real motivation is that it would be a terrible business move for them to take on the burden of a dying planet. It’s common for religious groups to send missionaries to Earth. Among the few on earth who do not live in the shelters, there are prisoners -- in the hellhole earth prisons where criminals pray they will never be sent -- and nomads. Nomads make their own way in the Earth’s near-inhospitable climes. These bands are most often full of escaped criminals and Apostates. Unlike in the story, the Coalition controls space, but old earth governments still control earth. Earth is a haven for apostates. Even in areas where the mesh isn't as built out and omnipresent as it is in big Coalition cities, most citizens can rely on a constant connection to the Extranet almost everywhere they can find civilization; and that somehow, coalition eyes might be watching. There are always places even in Coalition cities where the mesh is especially weak, and of course it cannot reach into space. If you're smart, there ways to get around the constant surveillance, regardless. The Remnants of Earth’s governments still exist, with operatives off-planet as well, and many of them wage a guerrilla war against the Coalition. Others wait in the shadows, gathering resources and waiting for an opportunity to strike. Weaponized starships, bipedal combat frames, rail guns, particle accelerator rifles… These are the deadly tools of the trade employed on all sides. Earth-based "terrorism" is a constant cause of panic in coalition media. Yet, murmurs of pro-earth sympathy are growing faster than the coalition can squash them down. in addition to earth governments and pirates they are also fighting large apostate colonies that have bases in Andromeda. And maybe, they are sending weapons and soldiers out to a part of space that was believed to be uninhabited, denying it to the public. Advanced compilers are only available to manufacturers and the elite. Most people have a protein replicator in their home (this makes food.) Higher rep individuals and tech enthusiasts have molecular compilers (these turn tanks of molecules such as polymers, metals, etc into products; like advanced 3D printers.) Most regular people can access one of these at a local library. Manufacturers and elite tech bros have advanced compilers. These machines can replicate almost anything from base elements. The energy requirements alone are likely prohibitive, even with tiny nuclear reactors everywhere No compiler can turn one element into another. Unlike in the story, humans DO know how mimirtech works. Mimir gave humanity the technological foundation to build all the stuff they have at present. They know generally how it works. However they have probably built systems so large that their understanding is not comprehensive, or AI that are essentially a black box, just like in the real world. Unlike in the story, Hacking mimir tech is possible, if hazardous, as long as you have advanced AI and specially crafted programs in your arsenal -- which are probably extremely illegal. Climate change played the largest part in the mass exodus from Earth, NOT war or a nanotech weapon. There were wars, the Consolidation Wars did happen, but the Consolidation wars primarily happened in SPACE. For coalition members, depending on your House membership, you are forbidden from speaking ill of the House, and may be forced to conform to certain beliefs/morals/religions/behaviors. To some people that's probably not a big deal. To the people who don't fit in....that's a problem.

**